docs: File extension named processor deprecation (#17362)
eslint/eslint: docs/src/use/configure/migration-guide.md

## Things That Haven’t Changed between Configuration File Formats

> While the configuration file format has changed from eslintrc to flat config, the following will continue to work with no, or only minor, changes:

Reviewer: Again, you're confusing the facts here. Let's just keep the existing verbiage.

```suggestion
While the configuration file format has changed from eslintrc to flat config, the following has stayed the same:
```

While the configuration file format has changed from eslintrc to flat config, the following has stayed the same:

* Syntax for configuring rules

> * Syntax for configuring processors

Reviewer: This should not be removed. The syntax for configuring processors is the same (using `processor`).

Author: It hasn't stayed the _same_ though, it's expanded. How about if I modified to `Syntax for configuring processors by their name`?

Reviewer: That's a detail that isn't important in the migration guide. What we're saying here is that the same way you specified a processor in eslintrc will work in flat config. The goal of this guide is to help people migrate their existing eslintrc configs, so we should tailor all of the information for that purpose. We have a larger config file guide that explores more of the available options.

];
```

### Processors

In eslintrc files, processors had to be defined in a plugin, and then referenced by name in the configuration. Processors with a name in the special form `.xxx`  were also automatically configured for any files with the extension `xxx`.

In flat config files, processors can still be referenced from plugins by their name, but they can now also be inserted directly into the configuration. Processors will _never_ be automatically configured, and must be explicitly set in the configuration.

As an example with a custom plugin with processors:

```javascript
// node_modules/eslint-plugin-someplugin/index.js
module.exports = {
    processors: {
        ".md": {
            preprocess() {},
            postprocess() {}
        },
        "someProcessor": {
            preprocess() {},
            postprocess() {}
        }
    }
};
```

In eslintrc, you would configure as follows:

```javascript
// .eslintrc.js
module.exports = {
    plugins: ["someplugin"],
    processor: "someplugin/someProcessor"
};
```

ESLint would also automatically add the equivalent of the following:

```javascript
{
     overrides: [{
        files: ["**/*.md"],

>         processor: "somePlugin/.md"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        processor: "someplugin/.md"
```

     }]
}
```

In flat config, the following are all valid ways to express the same:

```javascript
// eslint.config.js

> import somePlugin from 'eslint-plugin-somePlugin';

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
import somePlugin from "eslint-plugin-someplugin";
```

Using double quotes to keep the style consistent with the rest of the document.

export default [
    {
        plugins: { somePlugin },

>         processor: 'somePlugin/someProcessor'

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        processor: "someplugin/someProcessor"
```

It's better to use double quotes here for consistency.

    },
    {
        plugins: { somePlugin },
        // We can embed the processor object in the config directly
        processor: somePlugin.processors.someProcessor
    },
    {
        // We don't need the plugin to be present in the config to use the processor directly
        processor: somePlugin.processors.someProcessor
    }
];
```

Note that because the `.md` processor is _not_ automatically added by flat config, you also need to specify an extra configuration element:

```javascript
{
    files: ["**/*.md"],
    processor: somePlugin.processors[".md"]
}
```

> In flat config, you can even directly embed custom processors without an associated plugin:
> 
> ```javascript
> // eslint.config.js
> 
> export default [
>     {
>         processor: {
>             preprocess() {},
>             postprocess() {}
>         }
>     }
> ];
> ```

Reviewer: Let's leave this out. This isn't a tutorial page to show all possible ways to configure flat config, it's a migration guide to go from eslintrc to flat config. Because this isn't a feature that's supported in eslintrc, it shouldn't be mentioned here.

```suggestion
```

Author: Sure, it's a new feature in flat config, I wanted to highlight it for users who may have written their own processors locally, and when converting to flat config, can delete the plugin/package that they previously had to wrap the processor in, simplifying that part of their codebase considerably :smile:

];
```

### Processors

In eslintrc files, processors had to be defined in a plugin, and then referenced by name in the configuration. Processors with a name in the special form `.xxx`  were also automatically configured for any files with the extension `xxx`.

In flat config files, processors can still be referenced from plugins by their name, but they can now also be inserted directly into the configuration. Processors will _never_ be automatically configured, and must be explicitly set in the configuration.

As an example with a custom plugin with processors:

```javascript

> // node_modules/eslint-plugin-somePlugin/index.js

Reviewer 2: Since npm package names are not allowed to contain uppercase letters (per https://docs.npmjs.com/cli/v9/configuring-npm/package-json#name), would `eslint-plugin-some-plugin` be a better name?

module.exports = {
    processors: {
        ".md": {
            preprocess() {},
            postprocess() {}
        },
        "someProcessor": {

>             proprocess() {},

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
            preprocess() {},
```

            postprocess() {}
        }
    }
};
```

In eslintrc, you would configure as follows:

```javascript
// .eslintrc.js
module.exports = {
    plugins: ["somePlugin"],
    processor: "somePlugin/someProcessor"
};
```

ESLint would also automatically add the equivalent of the following:

```javascript
{
     overrides: [{
        files: ["**/*.md"],
        processor: "somePlugin/.md"
     }]
}
```

In flat config, the following are all valid ways to express the same:

```javascript
// eslint.config.js
import somePlugin from 'eslint-plugin-somePlugin';

export default [
    {
        plugins: { somePlugin },
        processor: 'somePlugin/someProcessor'
    },
    {
        plugins: { somePlugin },
        // We can embed the processor object in the config directly
        processor: somePlugin.processors.someProcessor
    },
    {
        // We don't need the plugin to be present in the config to use the processor directly
        processor: somePlugin.processors.someProcessor
    }
];
```

Note that because the `.md` processor is _not_ automatically added by flat config, you also need to specify an extra configuration element:

```javascript
{
    files: ["**/*.md"]

>     // It's not valid to use the name "somePlugin/.md", so we need to embed the processor directly

Author: Yep, it wasn't clear before, so I was going to follow up afterwards, but since there seems to be consensus to allow, I'll remove 😄

    processor: somePlugin.processors[".md"]
}
```

In flat config, you can even directly embed custom processors without an associated plugin:

```javascript
// eslint.config.js

export default [
    {
        processor: {
            preprocess() {},
            postprocess() {}
        }
    }

> ]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
];
```

];
```

### Processors

> In eslintrc files, processors had to be defined in a plugin, and then referenced by name in the configuration. Processors with a name in the special form `.xxx`  were also automatically configured for any files with the extension `xxx`.

Reviewer: xxx has some connotations that aren't appropriate for documentation. :smile:

```suggestion
In eslintrc files, processors had to be defined in a plugin, and then referenced by name in the configuration. Processors beginning with a dot indicated a filename extension (such as `.md`) were also automatically configured for any files matching that extension.
```

Author: 🤦 Whoops, didn't even register, good catch 😄

Author: Gone a step further and linked out to the custom processors page so that developers can be sure what we're talking about and get more details:

> Processors beginning with a dot indicated a [file extension-named processor](../../extend//custom-processors.md#file-extension-named-processor) which ESLint would automatically configure for that file extension.
